[THUNDEROUS NOISE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> To discover the true
meaning behind any subject,
it is sometimes necessary to
unlearn what has been taught.
Take the concept of
paradise, for example.
While Eastern traditions equate
paradise with the higher ideal,
Western traditions
view it as a pure land
tainted by evil, reserved
for the virtuous,
and accessible only to the dead.
But this view is based
on errors in translation
from older sources,
further distorted
through religious
motives and then
through unquestioned repetition,
accepted over time as dogma
despite it bearing
little resemblance
with the original teachings.
So what is paradise
really about?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Antiquarians such
as John Michell
summed up paradise as
a kind of life mission
whose aim is the
attainment of philosophical
as well as biological
perfection.
And to quote Michell, "just
as the forms of nature,
such as the rose, the
crystal, and so on
reflect an ideal symmetry,
which no individual among them
ever achieves, so it
is with humanity."
In deriving all
the forms of nature
from ideal and
manifest prototypes,
traditional philosophy reverses
the evolutionist's notion
of human assent
from lower creatures
and inculcates the
opposite myth that we
are descendants from
a divine creation
and may properly aspire to
re-enter the primeval paradise.
If so, how do perfection
and paradise overlap?
Is it really a state that can
be experienced when one is still
in this world?
And if paradise is more
than an imaginary realm,
how and where can it be reached?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Our quest begins with
the most unlikeliest
of topics, the Knights Templar.
Back in the 12th
century, recruits
wishing to join
the Templar Order
made a vow to discover
the joys of paradise.
It seems odd that military
men and mercenaries
with big swords, people who
engage in war for a living,
should make such a
preposterous statement.
Or was there something
more to the Templars
that meets the eye, a
spiritual angle perhaps?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It is known that the inner
brotherhood of the Templars
behave more like an ecumenical
college than an elite fighting
outfit.
And they also conducted
a secret ritual
that culminated in a
mystical revelation.
And a hint of what
this entailed came
to light in the 14th century.
After the Templars
escaped persecution,
they moved to
Portugal and Scotland.
And following a secret ritual on
the summit of a sacred mountain
on the spring equinox,
they changed their name
to Scottish Rite Freemasonry.
So in a matter of
speaking, the Templars
were one of the
first organizations
to successfully employ brand
marketing and public relations.
But it enabled the practices
to remain untouched.
So in the Masonic third degree,
for example, the candidate
is lifted from a
figurative grave.
They're pronounced
risen from the dead.
And then his or her
blindfold is removed.
Why?
Because having been exposed
to restricted knowledge,
they became enlightened.
And the third degree
itself was symbolic
of an actual ritual
that was performed
in a restricted underground
chamber in which the candidate
undertook an induced
out-of-body experience.
Now, the initiates who
successfully completed
the ritual claimed that they
had experienced paradise
and were therefore free
from fear of physical death.
And it gave them a
completely different view
of how the universe really is
rather than how it appears.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, to add to this, there's
the Masonic 17th degree.
And it's said to be the most
spiritual of all the teachings
because it paves the
way to understanding
the laws of nature and
establishing a relationship
with a non-physical reality.
Now, clearly such concepts
didn't just appear overnight.
They are the sum
of hundreds, if not
thousands, of years of
acquiring specialist
information and, of course,
personal experience.
So the question
is just how old is
the knowledge the Templars
and the Scottish Rite Masons
were professing?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Around 8,000 BC, a
group of sages of gods
introduced a sacred
book to Japan.
The collective
teachings are known
as The Way of Ise, an
odd title because it
appears to be the Japanese name
for the Egyptian divine bride
Isis.
Consisting of 17
[JAPANESE],, or ways,
they embody the rules
for proper conduct
as well as for raising
the latent spirituality
within the practitioner, the
effects of which resulted
in spiritual perfection.
The reward was a
state of inner peace.
It is the earliest
known text that
teaches a person how to embody
a paradisial state of mind.
Prehistoric Japan wasn't
the only place where
these teachings were promoted.
On the other side of the
world, Abydos, for example,
similar knowledge
was transmitted
in a restricted chamber
called the Osirion.
And it was originally
a freestanding temple
beside the Nile.
This Osirion was designed to
mirror the process of creation
itself.
There's a deep moat
that represents
the primordial
waters of the cosmos.
And it surrounds a
large stone platform,
the island of creation,
upon which stands
the sum of all knowledge.
Well, the candidates would
alight from a small boat.
They would walk up
a short staircase.
And they would take instruction
on universal concepts
beginning with the
fundamental principle of how
energy evolves into matter.
And it's represented
here by a rectangle
in the proportion of the Golden
ratio, the mathematical form
behind all organic life.
And beside it, another box
in the shape of a square
symbolizes the balance
of the four elements
that make up the physical world.
Around this platform,
there are 17 chambers.
And each transmitted a
sacred teaching or way.
And their combined
knowledge supports
the ceiling of
the Osirion, which
in turn represents the cosmos.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Around 4,000 BC, the
language of the temple
was taken north to Ireland
where a group of mystics
built the massive double
passage mound at Knowth.
And amid this
ritual environment,
the knowledge was necessary
for the candidates
to achieve spiritual perfection.
And it was conveyed in
each of the 17 mounds.
And once mastered,
they completed training
by entering the central
mounds passageway via the west
at the spring equinox sunset.
And then they spent
an unspecified time
inside the inner chamber
to access a paradisial land
before emerging
reborn in the East.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It appears the same
teachings were practiced
throughout the world by many
interlinked groups of wisdom
keepers.
In Peru, for example,
the ancient city of Cuzco
stands a limestone butte
carved inside and out
with unusual alcoves, and
symbols, and staircases.
And all these
things lead nowhere.
But inside, there's a
chamber resembling a womb.
Prior to entering this
hand-carved chamber,
the initiate arrived in
a preparatory courtyard
surrounded by 17
niches and each one
said to contain a
restricted teaching.
And then they entered
the restricted chamber
to undertake an out-of-body
experience that took them
to a land beyond our world from
which they return perfected
three days later.
Such examples build a
picture of people involved
in search of the
paradisial environment
from which they return
very different from when
they departed.
And that's the difference.
They experience
paradise while alive
and return to this
world to carry on
with their daily affairs.
To get a better sense
of what was going on,
let's add another layer to
the story, the original story
of two people who lived
in one of paradises
original earthly
counterparts This was Adamah
and Havah, otherwise known in
the Western tradition as Adam
and Eve.
In the Hebrew
version of the story,
these two hapless
antediluvian people
are booted out of paradise
and its blissful state.
However, in the once
banned agnostic tradition,
which is far closer to the
original Sumerian account which
itself was copied from an
even more ancient text,
things turned out very different
when Eve was plucking the apple
from the tree.
The serpent in this version
is a benevolent hero,
while the god
portrayed in the story
is not a pleasant
individual at all.
He's very jealous.
He's a shadow god.
And we see this when
the serpent asks
Eve what did God say to you?
Was it to not eat from
the tree of knowledge?
And Eve replies, he said,
not only do not eat from it
but do not touch
it lest you die.
And the serpent reassures
Eve and she says to her,
do not be afraid.
With death, you shall not die
for it was out of jealousy
that he said this to you.
Rather your eyes
shall open and you
shall come to be like gods
recognizing evil and good.
And sure enough,
once she and her Adam
ate from the tree
of knowledge, they
experienced enlightenment
because the knowledge empowered
them to reach spiritual
transfiguration and all
of this while
living in paradise.
And since the original meaning
of paradise is a fertile plain
surrounded by water, clearly
this was a real location.
However, the name
carries a double meaning.
The fertile plain
referred to is a metaphor
of the island of wisdom that
rises above the waters of chaos
like a belly pregnant with the
sum of all information placed
there by the gods.
So in metaphysical
terms, this paradise
illustrates an
environment or dimension
where one is able to access
knowledge at its purest level.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A talking serpent should
raise anybody's suspicion.
And, indeed, it is the
key to understanding
the story of paradise.
The serpent was,
in fact, a woman,
and her name was Taba'et.
She was the wife of a
god man called Enki.
And they belong to a group of
sages, keepers of knowledge.
And since they understood and
controlled the laws of nature,
they became associated with
the rhythm and flow of energy
which flows like an
invisible serpent.
And hence they're given
title, people of the serpent.
Ultimately, the story of
Adamah and Havah in paradise
describes the self-empowerment
of the individual
for the understanding
of the laws of nature.
Much more so than a tale
of chastisement and sin.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So far, it appears that
interacting with the state
or place called
Paradise enables access
to specialized information,
spiritual truths,
even the understanding
of celestial mechanics.
Perhaps more because
thousands of years
after the Sumerian account,
the stories and rituals
associated with accessing
a state of bliss
finally reached
the ancient Greeks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
After their personal involvement
in the mystery schools,
scholars such as
Pythagoras and Plato
provided insights into
what was taking place.
How direct contact
with this other world
involved and induced
near-death experience
inside the secret chamber,
or a box, or a cave,
followed by an
uncomfortable return
back into the physical world.
And they described returning
empowered, convinced
of the soul's immortality.
Even facing the prospect of
physical death without any fear
because they said, we
already experienced paradise
and are therefore free.
[DRAMATIC SOUND]
However, they
weren't free to talk
about the actual experience
because every candidate
undertook a vow of silence.
And in Greece it
was forbidden by law
to discuss the
experience in public.
But they unanimously alluded
to how the experience opened
their eyes to the
mechanics of the universe,
and to the true
nature of the soul.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One rare account
comes from Plato
himself who describes
his experience
via fictional character in
his book, "Phaedrus" in order
not to betray his vow.
He says, those who are initiated
into the great mysteries
perceive a wondrous light.
Purer regions are reached
and divine visions
inspire a holy awe.
Then the man perfected
and initiated,
free and able to move super
physically without constraint,
celebrates the mysterious.
He sees on Earth the
many who have not
been initiated and purified,
buried in the darkness.
And through fear of death
clinging to their ills for
want of belief in the
happiness of the beyond.
We beheld the beautiful
visions and were
initiated into the mystery which
may be truly called blessed.
Beyond the world of gods
lies a reality with which
true knowledge is concerned.
A reality without
color or shape,
intangible but utterly real.
Plato spent 13 years
in Egypt, long enough
to be acquainted with
the mystical practices
of its temples.
And he points out that
the aim of the seeker
is to become conscious
of the wisdom found only
in this out-of-body
reality while still living.
And to quote Plato
again, true philosophers
make dying their profession.
They are glad to set
out for the place
where there is the
prospect of attaining
the object of their lifelong
desire, which is wisdom.
One will never find
wisdom in all its purity
in any other place.
That's quite a claim.
Not surprisingly, Plato
regarded metaphysics
as one of the highest stages
of personal enlightenment.
To which he added, the shoe
occupation of the philosopher
is to allow the soul to
be released from the body
and run free.
Which apparently, he did.
Plato even admitted
how his participation
in initiation and experience
of a paradisial state
helped shape his
philosophical doctrine.
[OMINOUS SOUNDS]
Another writer offering
a candid description
of his experience in
a paradisial dimension
is the second century
writer, Lucius Apuleius.
He wrote, the high priest
ordered all uninitiated persons
to depart.
Invested in me a new linen
garments and let me by the hand
into the inner recesses
of the sanctuary itself.
I approached the
very gates of death
and set one foot on
Persephone's threshold.
I journeyed through
all of the elements
and yet was permitted to return.
At midnight I saw the sun
shining as if it were noon.
I entered the presence of
the gods of the other world,
stood near, and worshipped them.
Oh, Lucius sums
up his experience
into the paradisial
landscape as reborn
and brought back on the
road of a new blessing.
And people have engaged in
all kinds of strange things
to experience paradise
and particularly in Egypt.
The Valley of the Kings may
be the world's most famous
cemetery.
But one of its earliest
chambers is out of place.
[OMINOUS SOUNDS]
In 1470 BC, Thutmose
III allegedly
had this beautiful underground
chamber made for his burial.
But there are problems
with the story.
First, the tomb contains a well.
Now a dead pharaoh would
hardly have stepped out
of his sarcophagus
and walked upstairs
to take a sip of water.
Secondly, his chamber
faces the Northeast,
which is traditionally
the direction associated
with the acquisition
of ancient wisdom.
Again, redundant
because if you are
dead you already have access
to all the knowledge you want.
And finally, and most
suspicious of all,
Thutmose was buried
on the other side
of the mountain in the
Temple of Hatshepsut,
where he had already built
himself a mortuary temple.
So we have to ask
ourselves, why does
one man need two places
in which to bury himself?
None of this makes
any sense, and we
need a better explanation.
Look carefully and the
answer is all around you.
The so-called tomb is
wrapped with a text
called "The Book of
the Hidden Chamber"
which describes
in intimate detail
the Egyptian
underworld, the Amduat,
how to get there,
and more importantly,
the techniques to help
your soul concentrate
and then return to
your living body.
And it's exemplified in
the following passage:
it is good for the dead
to have this knowledge,
but also for the
person on Earth.
Whoever understands
these mysterious images
is a well-provided light being.
Always this person
can enter and leave
the Amduat, proven to
be true a million times.
Such an experience of
paradise wasn't only reserved
for the privilege.
A servant in the
household of Pharaoh Teti,
wrote about his experience
on his spirit door
after he was favored to join
the pharaoh's inner circle
via a secret ritual.
And the servant
describes his surprise
upon being admitted to master's
secret things of the pharaoh.
And this humble man writes,
"today in the presence of Teti,
son of Ra, more honored by
the pharaoh than any servant
as master of secret
things of every work which
his majesty does.
When his majesty
favored me he caused it.
I entered the chamber
of restricted access."
And of course this man stays
silent about the actual event.
But at the end the grateful
servant joyfully proclaims,
"I found the way."
So here we have a
lowly Egyptian servant
in 2400 BC revealing he has
been privy to the same teaching
found 6,000 years earlier
in prehistoric Japan.
[WHIMSICAL MUSIC]
It's odd how people
who embark on a journey
to a paradisial world, people
such as Odysseus or Osiris
are always chopped up
or they're seriously
inconvenienced or dismembered.
And such tales are
intended as allegories.
The defleshing of the self is
essential for the transition
from physical to ethereal.
Because by shedding
the old self the body
becomes lighter,
allowing the soul
to escape its physical
vessel with greater ease.
And free from
material entrapment,
it wanders at will
in paradise acquiring
the knowledge of the
gods before returning
into a new and improved vessel.
This concept is embodied at a
temple of Ek Balam in Yucatan.
The entrance to the
restricted chamber
is guarded by the mouth
of a monster whose
33 teeth greet the
approaching candidate
and metaphorically devours them.
If you look very
carefully around the mouth
and you'll see seven
sages, each bearing wings.
And these are the teachers.
These are the spirit
guides and they
are called anhel, which may be
a precursor to the word angel.
And the surrounding
panels and their spirals
offer a very vivid picture
of the realm of clouds
into which the candidate
is about to step into.
[DRAMATIC SOUND]
In Persia the celestial paradise
was imitated on the landscape
by paradise gardens.
The essential plan of
these green enclosures
consists of a rectilinear area
based on the golden ratio,
the spiral of life.
16 green spaces surround
the central 17th, a fountain
or pond representing the source
of creation in full flow,
while the water channels
that formed the principle
axes of the garden feed all
points of manifested creation.
These luscious gardens were
planted with fruit bearing
trees, symbolizing the
cosmically inspired wisdom
that any earthly person
is able to pluck.
So these retreats were
allegorical mirrors.
They were created to feed
the thirst of the individual
and assist their emergence
from ignorance, which
was represented by
the sterile desert
beyond the perimeter
of the garden.
The Persians also
provided an understanding
of what paradise really means.
And it lies in the root
of the word itself.
Now in the Middle East,
altering your resonance
was the preferred method by
which consciousness accessed
a place called, Pairi Daeza,
which means a walled enclosure.
Well, if paradise is a walled
enclosure, how does one get in?
In eastern tradition,
an initiate
who raises their
state of godliness
and mastered discipline
over the material world
is called a Jina, and the
root of which means hidden.
Now Jina is also the root of
Jannah, the Islamic concept
of paradise.
And it means a hidden
place beyond the physical.
And its derivative, Janela,
originally meant an opening
into another country.
Let's see what happens
when we connect these dots.
If Pairi Daeza is
a walled enclosure,
a demarcated place beyond
the normal world and Jannah
is paradise, a hidden
place beyond the physical,
then it can be reached through
a window into another country.
Where do we find such windows?
This is where ancient
temples enter the equation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Sacred texts from
Teotihuacan to Southern India
describes sacred places
as navels of the Earth.
And when you
traverse such navels,
you bring back knowledge
from a paradisial world.
So a place or person who bridges
this meeting between spirit
and matter in turn becomes a
repository of that knowledge.
We have help on this topic
from the Gnostic Gospels
who go a step further.
They describe how an
organization built temples
as a representation of
the spiritual places
in the landscape.
And in doing so,
created an antidote
against forces of darkness that
steered people who follow them
into great trouble, leading them
astray with many deceptions.
And they died not
having found the truth,
and thus they became
enslaved forever
from the foundations
of the world.
Now that's some benefit
and hardly surprising
considering the
ancients knew they
inhabited a universe
where everything is alive,
even the rocks.
So consequently the
temples that they built
consist of the numbers,
the proportions,
that form the very
fabric of the cosmos.
So the number and proportion in
every stone, pillar, entrance,
staircase, or room are designed
to reflect celestial mechanics.
And the point was to open a
gap in the fabric of space
and time, and allow
a person to engage
with the heart of the universe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A practical example
of this is Stonehenge.
The megaliths not only
defined the boundary
between profane and sacred
space, but the gaps in between
act as windows into paradise.
How?
Because they mark the flow
into the Temple of water
below the ground, that is by
nature already electrically
charged, in addition to telluric
currents that are attracted
to the center of the site.
Crossing these windows,
the human body's
electromagnetic
field is stimulated,
and it's state of
awareness altered.
In a manner of speaking,
they are entering paradise.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This relationship between
strategically guided
energy and temples
as passageways
into a parallel
reality is described
in the temples themselves.
One temple in Edfu describes
how a protective zone
was established
around the perimeter
of the mansions of the gods.
So what would the
architects referring to?
Were they employing bouncers
to keep the undeserving away?
Well, it turns out
that the recent study
shows how it is known
that the Earth is
encircled with an
electromagnetic net called
the Hartmann grid.
And readings taken at
sacred sites from Europe
all the way to
Tibet found this net
to be stretched into bands
of 18 geomagnetic lines
around the temples,
in effect behaving
like a protective membrane.
And places like Saqqara,
and Karnak, Luxor,
even the stupas of Tibet
enjoy an immense neutral zone
that allows energy
inside the perimeter
of these domains of
the gods to facilitate
a higher state of awareness.
In another study, a
magnetometer survey
of the Rollright stone
circle in England
shows how one telluric
current is drawn like a spiral
into the circle of stones.
And the intensity of
the geomagnetic field
within the circle was also
found to be significantly lower
than the outside.
So the stones behave
like a shield.
In fact, it has been
discovered that the ditches
around the stone circles
conduct telluric ground current.
They concentrate it and then
release it via the entrance
and often at double the
rate the surrounding land.
Inside the world's largest
stone circle at Avebury,
magnetic readings drop at
night to a far greater level
that can be accounted for
under normal circumstances.
And at sunrise they charge
back with the ground current
from the surrounding land
attracted to the ditch
just as magnetic fluctuations
inside the stone circle
begin to reach their maximum.
The Sioux of North America
refer to this energy as skan.
And where it concentrates it
leads to spiritual attuning.
So that contact with
many places of power
builds up a numinous
state of mind.
Such anomalies in the
local electromagnetic grid
reveal why temples were seen
as living beings that sleep
at night and awaken at dawn.
Another example of a
temple forming a boundary
into paradise is Saqqara.
Inside one of its
adjacent pyramids
there exist a set of
explicit instructions
for accessing the other world.
And includes the
following passage,
seven degrees of
perfection enable passage
from Earth to heaven.
It's as though the phrase
alludes to a threshold that
needs to be crossed from the
physical into the non-physical,
which of course, is
an apt description
of the purpose of the temple.
But why should this require
seven degrees of perfection?
Does the visitor undergo
a kind of purification
before entering this site?
Well, in Egyptian mythology,
the passage into paradise
is made through Sekhet-Aaru,
the field of reeds.
And to reach this
much desired land one
must first pass through
a series of gates.
And at Saqqara, one has to
do just that before entering
the mansion of the gods.
It is a unique passageway.
A column made of
reeds, each bundle
separated by narrow alcoves.
And each alcove discharges an
alternating field of positive
and negatively
charged energy that
serves as an invisible
gate while at the same time
influencing the electromagnetic
circuits of a person walking
into the main compound.
So in other words, it is
a preparatory hallway.
But to what end?
Well, since the temple is a
perfect mirror of creation,
anyone who enters the site with
negative thoughts or emotions
is considered a liability
to this perfect environment.
So to protect the
temple, one must
be mindful before entering
the sacred domain.
And the pyramid
texts refer to this
as mastering the
self before crossing
the threshold of each gate.
It seems that each alternating
charge along the passageway
is helping you dispel
negative emotions.
And the fact that there
exists seven positive charges
appears to explain those seven
degrees of perfection mentioned
in the text.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The idea of seven protective
gates is not unique to Saqqara.
In Ireland, the upright
stones forming the passageway
of Newgrange are arranged
so that their magnetic poles
generate exactly seven
positive charges either side
of the passage.
This practice of protecting
the energetic core
of a sacred space continued
into the 12th century,
when the Cistercian
monks and the Templars
built the present
cathedral of Chartres.
Well, the town of
Chartres itself
had already been the site of
mystery schools dating back
to at least the time
of the druids who
used to hold their
ecumenical council
around a Neolithic
stone circle or a mound.
And this has since
been incorporated
into the foundation of
successive churches.
So the present
cathedral actually
betrays the true age of the site
because the summer solstice now
rises several degrees off axis.
But back in 4000 BC
the shaft of sunlight
would have shone through.
The cathedral's
location, its dimensions,
its architectural features also
referenced underground water
courses which generate a
natural electrical current
as they percolate
through the limestone.
And then it goes there's the
main telluric current flowing
down the nave.
And all of these
forces congregate
above the original mound.
But to access the area
protecting the present altar,
one must first cross
seven bands of energy.
Those seven gates that allow
passage from the physical
into a state of bliss.
So it's not by accident that
this spot is called, the altar.
No doubt ancient
people discern places
on the land that are
energetically different.
Aboriginal people refer to
them as increase centers.
And correct use of ritual
enables an interaction
with a life force
that propels the soul
towards a state of ecstasy.
It allows a person to be
free of limitations imposed
by the material world,
and constant interaction
with sacred places
provides insights.
So the more apples you pick the
easier one reaches paradise.
People often travel
great distances
expecting to see exceptional
buildings at such locations.
But often there are none
because in remote times,
people sensed the invisible
much more readily.
And so man-made structures
were unnecessary.
The energy was what
it was all about.
So in a matter of
speaking, the people
who sought these hot spots
were following the advice
given in ancient texts
such as the "Vedas" which
refer to a specialized
knowledge being accessible
at carefully chosen locations
throughout the planet.
Each one protected by a
deity to whom was entrusted
a specific aspect of nature.
But as we began to forget how
to see or feel these hot spots,
these invisible
libraries were marked,
sometimes by a humble
standing stone.
And around the
Mediterranean this
was called a Betil, which
means a house of god.
Now clearly one upright stone
does not resemble a residence,
so the term must be
referring to the monolith
as a repository
of a creative life
force which of course, is the
original meaning behind a god.
Despite its simple appearance,
a humble standing stone
can be deceptively powerful.
Hundreds of
documented cases tell
of people, doubters
in particular,
receiving an electrical
shock after touching
a monolith whose energy has
not been grounded in some time.
Because of the amount of quartz
and other conductive minerals
in the stone, the piezo-electric
properties of these monoliths
enables them to accumulate
ground current which is then
stored like a giant battery.
Which brings us to
a larger inquiry,
are these access points into
paradise haphazard or were they
planned?
Were they part of
a bigger picture?
Because surviving Tamil
texts also pointed
temples and other sacred
sites being deliberately built
as a kind of insurance policy.
Or as one Egyptian text
puts it and I quote,
whosoever shall make a
copy of a natural temple
and make it so
upon the Earth, it
shall act as a magical
protector for them
in heaven and in
Earth, unfailingly,
and regularly, and eternally.
Ancient architects recognized
how easily ordinary people are
seduced by
self-defeating impulses
and lose direction in
their earthly life.
These sages understood
the relationship
between subtle energy, the
temple, and the balanced
outlook of the individual.
An ongoing project to study
sites of remote antiquity
has discovered how an
interconnected group of gods
once established a global
network of sacred sites
where anyone can access
paradise while still on Earth.
If lines of longitude are
drawn on the world map
based on numbers unique
to the pentagram which
is the geometry
of living things,
and technically
includes the Earth,
then plot the location of some
of the oldest sacred places,
a grid of power places
becomes quite apparent.
And certainly this plan was
known among esoteric schools
right up to the medieval era.
It was even referred
to as the great work
and it's an ongoing project
that has been maintained
and promulgated by successive
groups of initiates.
And it's still a play
to this very day.
To demonstrate this
theory, let's start
in a suburb of Cairo
called Heliopolis.
There are few reminders
of this location
having once been the oldest
academy in Egypt in 10400 BC.
And it was originally
called Iunu.
The sacred mound on
the Nile represented
the original primordial
mound into which
was deposited the sum
of all the knowledge
for the elevation of humanity.
So if we take the
pentagonal angle 108 degrees
and travel west
from Iunu, we arrive
at the capital of a new republic
founded by a group of Scottish
Rite Freemasons.
And their aim was to further
the principles of enlightenment
and liberty of the
individual as practiced
by their predecessors,
the Knights Templar.
And 12,000 years before them at
Iunu, a group of divine people
called the Shining Ones,
followers of Horus.
The exact spot of this
modern correspondence
is marked by the Dome of the
Capitol in Washington DC.
This may be the last
place one would expect
to experience
paradise and yet this
was according to Thomas
Jefferson, one of its founders,
to be the first temple
dedicated to the sovereignty
of the people.
And certainly it was a noble
ideal but stripped down
to its basics, these
architects of this new Republic
were working with
nothing more than energy.
And energy doesn't care
about right or wrong,
it is simply energy.
But it's the intent that defines
whether this energy is directed
to right action or not.
And just like the
ancient temples,
the Capitol building
is not a lone entity.
It is part of a larger
mechanism that strategically
links various
locations to create
an influential
energetic environment.
So in essence, the blueprint
behind Washington DC
enabled the site to function
as a landscape temple.
Just like Paris before
it, which itself
is based on the blueprint
of Thebes in Egypt.
And by way of
demonstration, the obelisk,
that is the Washington
Monument forms
a right angled triangle
with the White House
and the Dome of the Capitol.
An ancient teachings
refer to this relationship
as a triple step of Vishnu.
A technique used
thousands of years
ago to link like sighted
minds across the land
by the power inherent in the
geometry of the triangle,
the geometry that binds together
every atom and molecule.
And then there's
the relationship
between true North, the Lincoln
Memorial and the White House
which generates the Great
Pyramid angle of 51.49 degrees.
In metaphysics, this
is the creative process
behind the conscious universe.
But to top it all, the
center of the Pentagon
relative to the White
House and the Capitol
forms the angle 32.72, known
to structural engineers
as the angle of repose.
And in esoterica as
the angle of gravity.
At this highest of
teachings involves
the understanding and
control of gravity so as
to allow the soul to leave the
body consciously and access
paradise at will.
It was the ultimate
teaching during initiation
and its practitioners
were prepared
to protect this information
with their lives
rather than reveal
it to the unsavory.
Something that the Knights
Templar demonstrated quite well
when they were burnt alive.
So if 32.72 became enshrined in
that well-known masonic ritual,
the 33rd degree.
Whether you were a
Templar Knight vowing
to discover the
joys of paradise,
or an Essene following
the way, or an initiate
at Chichen Itza
picking the fruit
from the tree of knowledge
so elegantly carved
at the entrance
to its ball court,
the journey into paradise
was marked by a marriage
to a divine bride.
Why?
Because the sum of
all universal wisdom
and the expansive
qualities it develops
in the self was embodied
in the regenerative
and fertilizing qualities
inherent in a divine woman.
Such qualities were
portrayed in Seshat,
the goddess of sacred
buildings, the woman
with a seven-petal flower
rising from her soul;
its geometry synonymous
with the Great Pyramid
and the fundamental
forces of creation.
So when Freemasons in
the 19th century Paris
gifted an emerging Republic
across the Atlantic
with another divine woman
with seven rays beaming
from her soul, it was a reminder
to follow the path of wisdom.
Which as Plato reminds us can
only be found in all its purity
in paradise.
Only then can we hope to
attain liberty from ignorance.
[MUSIC PLAYING]